A Domain Name System (DNS) translates a domain name such as www.example.com to an IP address.
Your router or ISP provides information about which DNS server(s) to contact when doing a lookup.
Let's say, user goes for google.com, dns lookup that if new, Lower level DNS servers cache mappings, if user again looks for google.com, lookup from that cache.
DNS results can also be cached by our browser or OS for a certain period of time, determined by the time to live (TTL).
The names in a DNS database form a hierarchical tree structure called the domain namespace. Domain names consist of individual labels separated by dots, for example: mydomain.microsoft.com.
A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) uniquely identifies the host’s position within the DNS hierarchical tree by specifying a list of names separated by dots in the path from the referenced host to the root. 
   
    Root Domain: A single period (.) or a period used at the end of a name, such as “example.microsoft.com.”
    Top Level Domain: ““.com”, which indicates a name registered to a business for commercial use on the Internet.
    Second level domain: ““microsoft.com. ”, which is the second-level domain name registered to Microsoft by the Internet DNS domain name registrar.
    Subdomain: ““example.microsoft.com. ”, which is a fictitious subdomain assigned by Microsoft for use in documentation example names.
    Host or resource name: ““host-a.example.microsoft.com.”, where the first label (“host-a”) is the DNS host name for a specific computer on the network.
    
    NS record (name server) - Specifies the DNS servers for your domain/subdomain.
    MX record (mail exchange) - Specifies the mail servers for accepting messages.
    A record (address) - Points a name to an IP address.
    CNAME (canonical) - Points a name to another name or CNAME (example.com to www.example.com) or to an A record.

Services such as CloudFlare and Route 53 provide managed DNS services.

TLD (top-level domain) servers: The third stop, these manage information for top-level domains like .com, .org, and .net. TLD servers provide information about authoritative name servers for specific domain names. A TLD server will point to the authoritative DNS server for a domain name.

DNS resolution: step-by-step

    Web browser search: A DNS query starts on the web browser for a site, like dnsimple.com. This initiates the DNS lookup process.
    Recursive resolver: Your browser communicates with a recursive resolver, which searches for the IP address for you. The recursive resolver acts as an intermediary in the DNS resolution.
    Root server query: The resolver begins by querying a root name server to find which TLD server is responsible for the .com domain.
    TLD server query: The resolver queries the .com TLD server, which returns the authoritative name server responsible for dnsimple.com.
    Authoritative name server query: The resolver queries the authoritative name server, which contains the resource records associated with the domain name dnsimple.com.
    IP address returned: Once the resolver gets the IP address back, it caches the record’s information using the TTL value of the record and sends it to your device. DNS caching improves the efficiency of future DNS lookups.

The Time-to-Live (TTL) value in a resource record indicates a length of time used by other DNS servers to determine how long to cache information for a record before expiring and discarding it.

Know boadly: https://support.dnsimple.com/categories/dns/